Azure IaaS Overview

What is Cloud Computing
Cloud Computing: where services such as servers, storage and application are delivered to an organizations computer and devices over the internet as opposed to LAN. Getting ride of on premise and having these services to the cloud.

Cloud Computing Options.
a. Public Cloud - Commericial cloud
b. Private cloud - owned servers privately.
c. Hybrid Cloud - private and public coming together, from on premise to cloud. 

Benefits of Cloud Computing:
a. Lower Cost, pay as you go.
b. More Flexibility, provision several services on the fly
c. Reduced management, vendor manages hardware and software.

Cloud Computing Services
1. IaaS - Host
2. PaaS - Build
3. SaaS - Consume

Azure Compute Services
Virtual Machines
Virtual Scale Sets
Batch
Cloud Services
Service Fabric
Kubernetes Services
Container Instances
Functions
App Services

Azure Resource Manager Overview (ARM)
Its a deployment model that is the successor to Azure Service Management and allow you to deploy and manage Azure resources in a more imporved way.

ARM is written in JSON. JSON is a data format that is used to exchange data between a web browser and a server, but it is less verbose, complex and can deal with highly structured data.

ARM manage and monitor all resources.

Resource Providers
Its a service that supplies the resources that you deploy and made through Azure Resource manager. Make sure your resource providers are registered. Parameters of Resource Provider are ID, Name, Type and Location.

ARM Template Elements
a. $Schema is location of JSON files that describes the template language.
b. Parameters are values provided when deployment
c. Resources
d. ContentVersion
e. Variables
f. Output

Two types of Deployment.
a. Complete Deployment.
b. Incremental Deployement

PowerShell Without Templates:
Deploy resources without templates. 

Azure Policy
Azure Policy Deployment. Policy definition is created using JSON.

Azure Security and Locks

Azure locks allow you to prevent the accidental deletion or modification or resource groups or resources.

Create Key Vaults

These are key security features.

Event Logging Process
It tracks deployments, activities

Resource Deployment Flow.


AZURE STORAGE
Its scalable, durable and highly available. Its secure and encrypted at rest 

Storage Services
1. General purpose V1,V2, Blob, V1 has been depleted. V2 is the available. 

Tiers 
a. Hot- Higher storage cost, day to day access
b. Cool - Lower cost, interval access
c. Archive - Lowest cost.
Standard storage account is prefered. 

Premium Storage account is not support for block blobs, append blods, azure tables, or azure queues. Only support Local Redundancy Storage (LRS).

Azure Storage Services

a. Blob (Container) Storage
b. Table Storage
c. Queue Storage store msgs
d. File Storage (file share)
e. Managed Disk Storage.

AZ 401 Certification.

Soft Delete on Data Protection.
When data is deleted, its on soft delete and Azure gives you the capability to overwrite or retrieve and retain data as configured.

Data is replicated in the same data center.(LRS)

LRS, ZRS, GRS, RAZRS, RAGRS

Replication Models
LRS
GRS
ZRS
GZRS

Azure File Sync

It allows you to synchronize files between an Azure file share and other services via internet.












