1. Reservation
Add equipment
Time of renting
Expected date of return.
Your location
Jobsite site Location


SUNSTATE EQUIPMENT API
Name of Equipment
Equipment ID
daily rentage
weekly rentage
monthly rent
Purchase Date
Equipment Details


Jobsite Details


Delivery Details
a. Equipment your are deliverying
b. The Jobsite you are deliverying the equipment to
c. The customer that needs the equipment
e. The sunstate branch that has the equipment
f. The Delivery Date
g. The Delivery Time
h. The driver details thats deliverying up.
i. Delivery Instruction


Telematics data

Schedule Dates
Delivery Date
Delivery Time
Pick-up Date
Pick-up Time


Pickup Details
a. Equipment your are picking up
b. The Jobsite you are picking the equipment from
c. The customer that used the equipment
d. The sunstate branch to you are taking the equipment to.
e. The pick up Date
f. The pick up Time
g. The driver details thats picking it up.
i. Pick up instructions


What we have in contracts

CONTRACTS
1. The name of the company hiring the equipment.
2. The address of the company hiring the equipment
3. The hiring company Rep
4. The hiring company account details with Sunstate
5. The Contract number
5. The name of the Equipment  
6. The Equipment ID
7. How many days 
8. How many weeks
9.  How many months
10. How many hours
11. Daily Standard rate
12. Weekly standard rate
13. Monthly standard rate
14. The Jobsite
15. Start Date
16. Start Time
17. Return Date 
18. Return Time
19. Sunstate Branch
20. Branch ID
21. Region
22. Branch Manager
23. Branch Employee that entered the contract in the system
24. Contract Type

CUSTOMER
1. The customer name
2. Customer Address
3. Customer sunstate account number
4. Customer status
5. Customer Phone
6. Fax
7. Email
8. 

The reason behind these seperate tables is to address each entity with their reference id. My own suggestion.
EMPLOYEE_ADDDRESS TABLE  (Emp_id)
JOBSITE_ADDRESS TABLE (Job_id)
CUSTOMER_ADDRESS TABLE (cust_id)


It’s no secret that technology is changing the way the construction industry operates. What is considered as one of the final frontiers for technology, the construction industry has seen the highest amount of venture capital activity of any technology sector.

Six predictions for the future of the equipment side of the construction industry:

Digitization of rental commerce and operations
Adoption of telematics for improved preventative maintenance
Advancement of VR/AR for improved training in alignment with the new ANSI standards
Adoption of semi-autonomous equipment for safer inspection and operation
Growth in telehandler sales leading to smaller fleets and higher utilization
Adoption of 100% hybrid and electric fleets
Technology needs to be thought of as workforce enablement, not as workforce replacement. To date, there is a reluctance to adopt technology on the commerce side of the business either out of fear of being replaced, satisfaction with the status quo, or a lack of urgency to innovate.

The use of technology and the data that comes with it allows equipment rental companies and operators to focus more time and energy on the human element of the business that has built this industry.

It allows us to be smarter around our economic decision making, more efficient with our sales and fulfillment, and more personalized with the customer experience we provide.

The biggest shift is in our perception of technology and our behavior as consumers of it.